Added tutorial for nft on ipfs using iota-sdk (#1077)
iotaledger/iota-wiki: tutorials/pages/create-nft-with-iota-sdk.md

# Create an NFT with the IOTA SDK and IPFS in NodeJs

> In this tutorial, you will upload your desired image to [IPFS](https://ipfs.tech/) and create an NFT from the unique IPFS URL on the Shimmer testnet. This tutorial will build on the tutorial "Setup testnet address and receive funds from the faucet" ([IOTA Wiki PR under review](https://wiki.iota.org/tutorials/wallet-setup)). If you haven't completed it, please do so, and afterward, come back here, or make sure you have a prefunded wallet. You will use the same folder and development environment as in the mentioned prerequired tutorial, allowing you to reuse the Stronghold account with funds on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will upload your desired image to [IPFS](https://ipfs.tech/) and create an NFT from the unique IPFS URL on the Shimmer testnet. This tutorial will build on the tutorial "[Setup testnet address and receive funds from the faucet](https://wiki.iota.org/tutorials/wallet-setup)". If you haven't completed it, please do so, and afterward, come back here, or make sure you have a prefunded wallet. You will use the same folder and development environment as in the mentioned prerequired tutorial, allowing you to reuse the Stronghold account with funds on it.
```

## Prerequisites

> - [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/).

Reviewer: Could we mention the version used here? Makes it easier to check which tutorial need updates and so on. Same for the other tutorial

Reviewer: Sorry I was unclear 😓 I meant the SDK version mostly. But having versions for the devs makes sense too 👍

Author: Ah.. got it.

Reviewer: I see no changes

Author: added now.

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) v16 and above supported. Tested till v20.
- [IOTA SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@iota/sdk) v1.0.6 used here.
- Finish the [Set up testnet address and receive funds from faucet](https://wiki.iota.org/tutorials/wallet-setup) tutorial.

## Set Up

### Prepare Your Development Environment

Navigate to the folder you created when completing the [set up a testnet address and receive funds from the faucet tutorial](https://wiki.iota.org/tutorials/wallet-setup):

```bash
cd wallet-setup
```

#### Install Packages

Next to the existing dependencies of the wallet setup tutorial, you will only need to add two more packages by running the following commands:

```bash

> npm install @iota/sdk

Author: Should I mention version in this step then?

npm install ipfs-core
```

Afterward, your `package.json` file should contain the following dependencies:

```json {6-12}
{
  "name": "wallet-setup",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "create-mnemonic.js",
  "dependencies": {
    "@iota/sdk": "^1.0.0",
    "dotenv": "^16.0.1",
    "ipfs-core": "^0.15.4"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "Apache-2.0"
}
```

---

### Prepare an Image for the NFT

Add your desired `*.jpg` file to the `wallet-setup` folder you created and rename it to `nft-image.jpg`.

For this tutorial we'll use the following image:

> ![NFT Image](/nft-image.jpg)

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this image be in the PR?

Author: Its there in static already. Used an older available image.

---

## Scripts

### Create NFT

Create a new file `create-nft.js` and add the following code:

:::note

> We broke the code into separate snippets to help you understand it better. To make it work, copy all code snippets one after another into the file that you have just created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We broke the code into separate snippets to help you understand it better. To make it work, copy all code snippets into the file you have just created.
```

:::

#### 1. Imports and parameters

```javascript
// Libraries
import {
  AddressUnlockCondition,
  Ed25519Address,
  IssuerFeature,
  MintNftParams,
  SenderFeature,
  utf8ToHex,
  Utils,
  Wallet,
} from '@iota/sdk';
const IPFS = require('ipfs-core');
const fs = require('fs');

// Environment variables
require('dotenv').config({ path: './.env' });
```

#### 2. Upload file to IPFS

> The function `uploadByPath()` starts a local IPFS node, reads the file from the provided path, uploads it to IPFS and returns the unique IPFS content identifer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The function `uploadByPath()` starts a local IPFS node, reads the file from the provided path, uploads it to IPFS, and returns the unique IPFS content identifier.
```

```javascript
async function uploadByPath(filePath) {
  try {
    console.log('\n');
    console.log(consoleColor, `Start local IPFS node for upload:`);

    // Set up local IPFS node for upload
    let node;
    if (!node) {
      node = await IPFS.create({
        repo: `ipfs_node`,
      });
    }

    // Read file from path
    const file = fs.readFileSync(filePath);

    // Upload file to IPFS
    const fileAdded = await node.add(file);
    const contentIdentifier = fileAdded.path;

    console.log('\n');
    console.log(
      consoleColor,
      `Your file was uploaded to IPFS with the following Content Identifier (CID):`,
    );
    console.log(contentIdentifier, '\n');

    console.log(consoleColor, `Check your file on IPFS:`);
    console.log(`https://ipfs.io/ipfs/${contentIdentifier}`, '\n');

    return contentIdentifier;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('IPFS upload error', error);
  }
}
```

> #### 3. Prepare NFT metadata

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### 3. Prepare the NFT's metadata
```

This part calls the `uploadByPath()` function described above and prepares the metadata of your NFT. Make sure to give your NFT a nice name here.

```javascript
async function run() {
    try {
        const filePath = "nft-image.jpg";
        const ipfsCid = await uploadByPath(filePath);

        // Define NFT metadata
        const metadataObject = {
            standard: "IRC27",
            type: "image/jpeg",
            version: "v1.0",
            name: "<Enter_your_desired_name_here>",
            uri: `https://ipfs.io/ipfs/${ipfsCid}`
        };

        const metadataBytes = utf8ToHex(JSON.stringify(metadataObject));
```

#### 4. Import Stronghold account and synchronize

```javascript
if (!process.env.STRONGHOLD_PASSWORD) {
  throw new Error('.env STRONGHOLD_PASSWORD is undefined, see .env.example');
}

const wallet = new Wallet({
  storagePath: process.env.WALLET_DB_PATH,
});

const account = await wallet.getAccount('Alice');

// We send from the first address in the account.
const senderAddress = (await account.addresses())[0].address;

// We need to unlock stronghold.
await wallet.setStrongholdPassword(process.env.STRONGHOLD_PASSWORD);
```

#### 5. Mint NFT

> 

Reviewer 2: This could do with an explanation. Why  do you use `MintNftParams`?  Where do the values you set come from? Why do you have to prepare and then send the transaction?

```js
      const params: MintNftParams = {
          sender: senderAddress,
          metadata: metadataBytes,
          tag: utf8ToHex('some NFT tag'),
          issuer: senderAddress,
          immutableMetadata: metadataBytes,
      };
      const prepared = await account.prepareMintNfts([params]);

      let transaction = await prepared.send();
      console.log(`Transaction sent: ${transaction.transactionId}`);

      // Wait for transaction to get included
      let blockId = await account.retryTransactionUntilIncluded(
          transaction.transactionId,
      );

      console.log(
          `Block included: ${process.env.EXPLORER_URL}/block/${blockId}`,
      );
      console.log('Minted NFT!');
      }
    } catch (error) {
        console.log('Error: ', error);
    }
    process.exit(0);
}

run();
```

> Run the script `create-nft.js` and check the console output to follow along the steps described above:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the script `create-nft.js` and check the console output to follow the steps described above:
```

```sh
node create-nft.js
```

> Make sure to check out the transaction block that minted your NFT in the Shimmer explorer. If everything went according to plan, the transaction spent a basic output and created two new unspent outputs, one NFT output, and a new basic output. In the newly created NFT output, you can see the immutable metadata of your NFT together with the unique IPFS URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check out the transaction block that minted your NFT in the [Shimmer Testnet Explorer](https://explorer.shimmer.network/testnet). If everything went according to plan, the transaction spent a basic output and created two new unspent outputs, one NFT output, and a new basic output. In the newly created NFT output, you can see the immutable metadata of your NFT together with the unique IPFS URL.
```

This part calls the `uploadByPath()` function described above and prepares the metadata of your NFT. Make sure to give your NFT a nice name here.

```javascript
async function run() {
    try {
        const filePath = "nft-image.jpg";
        const ipfsCid = await uploadByPath(filePath);

        // Define NFT metadata
        const metadataObject = {
            standard: "IRC27",
            type: "image/jpeg",
            version: "v1.0",
            name: "<Enter_your_desired_name_here>",
            uri: `https://ipfs.io/ipfs/${ipfsCid}`
        };

        const metadataBytes = utf8ToHex(JSON.stringify(metadataObject));
```

#### 4. Import Stronghold account and synchronize

```javascript
if (!process.env.STRONGHOLD_PASSWORD) {
  throw new Error('.env STRONGHOLD_PASSWORD is undefined, see .env.example');
}

const wallet = new Wallet({
  storagePath: process.env.WALLET_DB_PATH,
});

const account = await wallet.getAccount('Alice');

// We send from the first address in the account.
const senderAddress = (await account.addresses())[0].address;

// We need to unlock stronghold.
await wallet.setStrongholdPassword(process.env.STRONGHOLD_PASSWORD);
```

#### 5. Mint NFT

> We've to prepare our params for NFT minting, which are defined in MintNftParmas type.
> - `address`: (optional) Bech32 encoded address to which the Nft will be minted. Default will use the first address of the account.
> - `sender`: Bech32 encoded sender address
> - `metadata`: Hex encoded bytes containing metadata as per IRC27 from [TIP-27](https://wiki.iota.org/shimmer/tips/tips/TIP-0027/#nft-schema) as done in previous step.
> - `tag`: Hex encoded bytes with some custom tags that can help you categorise.
> - `issuer`: Bech32 encoded issuer address
> - `immutableMetadata`: Similar to metadata as hex encoded bytes however this one can not be updated later once minted. Can contain core properties that is supposed to be immutable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should prepare the parameters for minting the NFT and define them in a `MintNftParms` type.
- `address`: (optional) Bech32 encoded address to which the Nft will be minted. The default will use the first address of the account.
- `sender`: Bech32 encoded sender address
- `metadata`: Hex encoded bytes containing metadata as per IRC27 from [TIP-27](https://wiki.iota.org/shimmer/tips/tips/TIP-0027/#nft-schema) as done in the previous step.
- `tag`: Hex encoded bytes with custom tags that can help you categorize.
- `issuer`: Bech32 encoded issuer address
- `immutableMetadata`: Similar to metadata as hex encoded bytes. However, this one can not be updated later once minted. It can contain core properties that are immutable.
```
